Adobe Photoshop is the leading professional image editing and creating with full of high-quality features.We can manipulate any image in a best way.
Adobe Photoshop is a paid software, and you can purchase it or download trial version form Adobe Creative Cloud.
We ar not bound to work on Adobe Photoshop only for photo editing. We have lots of features in Photoshop which increase its value in Graphics Desinging.

We can Design Websit/Mobile Application/Software, Logo/GIFs, Banner/Flex/Hoarding
Creating 3D Artwork

ctrl + Alt + c  		== Canava Size
ctrl + g        		== layer select and create group
shift + u       		== custom Shape tool shape select like rectangle,circle etc.
shift + v       		== Move tool
ctrl + shift + backspace 	== background color
alt + shift + backspace 	== foreground color
ctrl + r   			== margin
ctrl + h                        == margin line hide or show
ctrl + --   			== zoom in
ctrl + ++                        == zoom out
ctrl + 0   			== fit to screen

What is Fultter ?
	Flutter is a rich UI Framework developed by google.
What is Swift?
	Dart is the language that powers Flutter.
What is DartPad?
	DartPad allows you to test your dart code right in the browser


In this brief overview, you learned about:
The basic communication between client and servers 
How websites are built and displayed
Front-end development is about what happens on the client
Back-end development is about what happens on the server
Full-stack development includes both front-end back-end develpment.


HTML is used to create the physical structure of a website with:
Text, Links, Image/Videos, Page Dividers, Buttons

The back-end developer codes the structure of the website.
Designeres add style to a space.
We need front-end developers to add the necessary glamor and appeal to a websites

CSS provides front-end developers with a standard menthod to define apply, and manage different sets of style characteristics for a websites and each of its components.
Css ensures uniformity in look and feel, style, colors, fonts, design and layouts.

HTML is used to create the structure and css is used to design it and make it appealing. 
CSS is also used to create websites that have cross browser compatibility such as PC, mobile devices, iPads etc.

JavaScript is an object oriented programming language that is used to conjunction with HTML and CSS to add interactivity to a website using HTML to add a login button to your page and css to style button

A front end development language is synthetically absolute level sheets (SASS).
An extension of CSS that is compatible with all versions of CSS.
SASS enables you to use thing like variable nested rules inline imports to keep things organised.
SASS allows you to create stylesheets faster and more easily

Learning style sheet (LESS)
LESS in hands CSS adding more style and functionS
iI is backward compatible with CSS.
Less.js is a JavaScript tool that converts that's less style to CSS styles

Websites are designed as reactive and responsive.
Reactive or adaptive websites display the version of the website design for a specific screen size.
A website can provide more information if opened on a PC that when opened on a mobile device

Responsive design of a website means that it will automatically resize to the device.
If you open up a products website on your mobile device it will adapt itself to the small size of the screen and still show you all the features

JavaScript Framework 
Angular Framework is an open source Framework maintained by Google.
Angular Framework allows website to render HTML page quickly and efficiently.
It has built-in tools for routing and form validation.
React JS has been developed and maintained by Facebook.
It is a JavaScript library that would and render component for a page.
Routing is not a part of this framework and will need to be added using a third party tool 

Vue.js is maintained by the community and its main focus is the view layer which includes a user interface buttons, visual components.
It is a flexible scalable and integrates well with other frame because It is very adaptable it can be a library or it can be the framework. 
The task of a front end developer envolves continuously.
The technology are upgraded constantly and so the front end developer need to talk to keep upgrading the website that they create the website that they create.
The websites that they create should work in multiple Browsers and multiple operating systems and multiple devices

Libraries-  Collections of reusable code

Framworks
Provide a standard way to build and deploy applications
Act as a skeleton you extend by adding your own code

application developers tools cloud application developers workbench includes CI CD build tools packages package manager 
CI CD 
continuous integration with continuous delivery and continuous deployment 
Enables developers to deliver frequent changes reliably 
implemented through a build automation server 
CI automatically build and test code
CD deplores that changes

build tools 
transform source code into binary for installation 
important in environments with many interconnected projects and multiple developers 
automate tasks like 
downloading dependencies
compiling source code into binary code 
packaging that one record 
running test 
deployment to production systems
example of build Tools  Webpack-Javascript module bundler, Babel-Javascript compiler

packages packages make apps to install 
packages contain 
app file 
instructions for installation metadata 
package managers 
make working with packets easier
co-ordinate with file achieves to extract packet archieve 
verified checksums and Digital Certificate to ensure the integrity and authenticity of the package 
Locate, Download install or update updating software from a software repository.
Manage dependencies to ensure a package is installed with all packages it requires

package manager by platform 
Linux debian package management system 
red hat package manager
cloud application package manager 
libraries and utility code are managed with the cloud application package manager 
node.js/JavaScript     NPN 
Java        gradle Maven 
Ruby Rubygems 
python      pip Conda

GPS(Global Positioning System)
API(Application Programming Interface) 
Graphical User Interface (GUI)

GPS (Global Positioning System) If your device has any GPS capabilities, the current position is identified using the satellite signal.

Mobile Network Location If you are browsing the internet using a mobile phone or a wireless modem, your location is tracked using the location of the nearest cell phone towers.

WiFi Positioning System If you are using a WiFi, then the Wi-Fi positioning system is used.

IP Address Location If none of the above is a possibility, location is detected based on the nearest Public IP Address. The accuracy of IP based location may not be very accurate. It can be used to identify the city, region or country.

Front-end developers work on the parts of the website or app that the user sees and interacts with.

Back-end developers work on the logic and functionality that keeps the website or app running and responding to users’ inputs.

Full-stack developers have both sets of skills.

Front-end developers and back-end developers work closely together.

Common languages for front-end development include: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

Common languages and frameworks for back-end development include Python, Django, and Flask.

Frameworks and libraries extend the functionality of coding languages such as JavaScript and Python.

Developer Roles
Front-end developer
Creates websites and cloud apps that the user interacts with
Back-end developer
Creates and manages resources needed to respond to client requests
Work together closly throughout the life of the website of cloud app

what does the back-end do?
Tha back-end processes the data you enter while browsing 
Login information Product Searches 
Payment information 
Back-end developers
Write and maintain the parts of the application that process the inputs

backend developer skills
examples of tasks and associated skills that back-end developers need:
Search requests submitted to database
Web application development language
Database query language
Navigation to restricted areas
User account management
Authntication and authorization
Secure Payment
Secure data handling
Secure storage

APIs, Routing and Endpoints
APIs,routes and endpoints process requests from the front-end 
API-words with data
Route- path to a websites
Endpoint- API or path
Back-end developers create routes to direct requests to the correct servie APIs provide a way for Cloud apps to access rewources from the back-end

working with databases
Language and toos for working with databases:
Structuced Query Language(SQL)
Object-Relational Mapping(ORM)

back-end developers focus on the functionality that keeps websits, cloud apps and mobile apps up and running
Back-end development covers a wide range of technology
Managing user accounts
Authentication and authorization 
Secure Storage and handiling of senstive
Back-end developres work with databses, retriving, processing and storing data.

extension 
color highlight

ant bhala to sabha to sab bhala 

I am a 2nd year Btech Cse undergraduate at Parul University. I am actively looking for some good GSoC organisations to contribute. I actively contribute to open source projects. I am interested in Web development and have worked with Js.
I saw your github profile on System github page and thought of asking you if System can be a good organisation for me to Start. If yes please guide me how to begin and let me known how can i contact you for further help. I will be free by december as currentrly I have my exam so I can start then
here is my github profile

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
thank nephew grace edge mushroom foster grunt elbow toss gasp talk end
web 3.0
NFT 
digital realstate
future of internet
semantic seo
metaverse
blocktopia metaverse GEM
industry 4.0

metaspoils - largest metaverse by zilliqa
5g Network 
Edge computing
ar/vr extended reality xr
tokens
blockchain
laser
PFP Utility Kit Release

Become your NFP in livestreams and use them in Daz Studio, Unity, Unreal, Blender, and more.
cryptopunk  top 10 most expensive nfts ever sold

for nft
mintable.app
rarible.com
foundatation.app
wazrix.net
opensea.io

cryptowallet
metamask
coinbase Wallet
WalletConnect
Fortmatic 



blockchain
	flash loans
	trading bots 
	defi
JAVASCRIPT
TYSCRIPT
SOLONA
rust

Smart Contracts - Solidity 
 Ganache - to setup local blockchain network
 Truffle - development env on EVM, 
 Web3js - library which allows you to connect to local or remote ethereum node using HTTP/Web sockets
 Metamask - used to access your wallet on the ethereum by web browser through an extension
sas and vr development

Web3 is a natural progression where cryptocurrency and other services operate on what's called the blockchain or distributed networks.
web3 is the next version of the internet, where services will run on blockchain.
web3 is looking to change the way the internet functions only in a much bigger way.
web3 promises to be more reliable, decentralised with control in the user's hands enable socialising for work and play through the metaverse, and makes it cheaper as well as easier to make payments.
Previous versions of internet Era?
web1.0
	in this stage the internet was created as a distributed set of computers communicating with one another, and sharing the load of managing the network.
	it worked very well but had one big problem there was no way to make money off it. For instance, a web 1.0 startup called Google had heavy traffic, but could not encash it.
web2.0
	In 2001, Google developed AdWords, a pay-per-click, auction-based search adverstising model, backed by search and monetization algorithms.
	Google's revenues rocketed to $2.7 billion from $87 million in three years when it went public, and now in 2020, it sits on a trillion-dollar valuation.
	The internet got monetized with stage Web 2.0
difference between web3.0 and previous versions?
The cloud platforms or on-premise infrastructure form the foundation for services in Web2, wheres in Web3, all services are built on top of a blockchain.
The key difference is that the cloud is controlled by giants such as Amazon, Google and Microsoft, and on-premise is controlled by companies/organisations, and is centralised.
in the case of blockchian, data is distributed across networks and no single entity owns the informaion.
Web3 is all about a decentralised internet that runs on a public blockchain, which is also used for cryptocurrencty transactions.
blockchain runs on smart contarcts, which are based on a set of protocols that differ from one blockchain to another.
web3, blockchain and crypto: How are they linked?
Blockchain aims at keeping the insights organized as block with cryptographic hash entrusted to make them immutable and secure. 
Blockchain is paving the way for a more democratic form of internet and it would finally come down to dApps and Smart Contract to automate specific process.
Hence Crypto players that would offer the best technology the contribute to web3 ecosystem will get the maximum attention.
Example of the web3 universe is NFTs or non-fungible tokens, which are bought using crypto coins. 
They might be JPEGs (oversimplification again)
challange with web3
	vastness: the internet is huge and it contains billions of pages and the SNOMED CT medical terminology ontology alone includes 370,000 class names, and existing technology has not yet been able to eliminate all semantically duplicated terms.
	Vagueness: User queries are not really specific and can be extermenly vague at the best of times. fuzzy logic is used to deal with vagueness.
	Uncertainty: The internet deals with scores of uncertian values. For example, a patient might present a set of symptoms that correspond to may different distinct diagnoses each wih a different probability. Probablistic reasoning techniques are generally employed to address uncertainty.
	Inconsistency: Inconsistent data can lead to logical contradiction and unpredictive anaylsis.








1. Artificial Intelligence
2. Brain computer interfaces
3. 3D printing
4. Living robots
5. Augmented Reality/ human augmentation
6. Tactile virtual reality
7. self driving vehicles
8. hyperloop
thank nephew grace edge mushroom foster grunt elbow toss gasp talk end
9. Hydrogen power
10. Energy storing bricks
quantom computing
controlled fusion
room temprature superconductors
affordable mass productions of material such as graphene and carbon nanotubes


00:46✅10. Robotics - Robotics is a significant industry that is gaining momentum with time. Some of the core robotics skills you need to possess are Python, Matlab, problem-solving, mathematics, and machine learning. 
01:44✅9. Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality -  Augmented reality blends real-world elements with virtual ones whereas Virtual reality creates an environment that is fully virtual. Some of the must-have skills for AR and VR are 3D modeling, Software development, and programming. 
02:34✅8. Big Data and Analytics - Big Data and Analytics allow you to store, process, analyze and make sense of vast amounts of data using cutting-edge technologies. Some of the skills required to master big data & analytics are Hadoop, SQL, Spark, Python, and Excel. 
03:32✅7. Quantum Computing - Quantum computing is now a tool that’s changing the face of several industries. To learn Quantum computing, you need to know programming, mathematics, mechanics, scientific computing, and algorithms.
04:20✅6. 5G networks -  According to the GSM Association, by 2025 5G networks are estimated to have more than 1.7 billion subscribers across the globe. 5G will also enable significant advances in IoT and Virtual Reality. 
05:11✅5. IoT - The Internet of things is fast becoming an integral part of our lives. The top-in-demand IoT skills are Machine learning & AI, Python & JavaScript, Big Data, and Node.js. 
06:09✅4. Cyber Security - The onset of the covid 19 pandemic has served as a trigger for a rise in the number of cyberattacks across the globe. Hence, the field of cyber security holds paramount importance in today’s times. To work in this field, skills like knowledge of operating systems, networking, virtualization, and programming are beneficial. 
07:03✅3. Blockchain - Blockchain is one of the contemporary technologies with a bright future. Blockchain developers need to know concepts like cryptography, data structures, and computer networking. 
07:50✅2. Cloud Services -  Cloud computing will be at the forefront of all technologies. For a successful career in cloud computing, you need to have knowledge of databases, programming, Linux, networking, and APIs. 
08:40✅1. Artificial Intelligence -  AI is playing a great role in medicine, manufacturing, education and Mobility. Some of the skills you need are Python Programming, Mathematics, Machine Learning, and Deep Learning. 
00:32✅Web Development - A Web development course includes aspects such as web design, web programming, and web publishing. The skills you will learn in this course are HTML, CSS, Javascript, Bootstrap, React, and more. 
01:18✅Cyber Security -  A good cyber security course will further help you to work as a Network Administrator, systems administrator, IT manager, security engineer, security consultant, etc. 
02:08✅Big Data course - By enrolling in a big data course, you’ll learn big data frameworks such as Hadoop and the Real-time processing framework - Apache Spark. 
03:16✅Blockchain Developer - By learning Blockchain, you’ll understand how Blockchain technology works, Ethereum, Solidity, Hyperledger, Smart Contracts and learn to build production-ready apps. 
04:16✅Digital marketing course - A good digital marketing course will help you learn SEO, SEM, Web Analytics, Social Media Marketing, Content Marketing, and Email Marketing. 
05:13✅Python Programming course - A Python course will help you learn the basics of Python programming such as data structures, loops, and functions, programming concepts along advanced topics.
06:16✅Project Management -  A PMP certification course will help you achieve the project management knowledge and skills required to manage an entire project on your own. You will learn how to plan, manage, execute, and control projects. 
07:22✅Data Science - If you are looking for a career in data science, then sign up for a course that covers all the in-demand data science skills such as Programming, Statistics, Data Visualization, Exploratory data analysis, and Machine Learning. 
08:26✅AI and Machine Learning courses - AI and Machine Learning are two of the biggest and most popular technologies of the 21st century. By enrolling in this course, you will be trained in Machine Learning algorithms, Deep Learning, Artificial Neural Networks, as well as Natural Language Processing. 
09:33✅Cloud Computing - A cloud computing course will walk you through the general cloud computing concepts, and give a solid foundation of cloud computing platforms such as AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform.






















Web Development $62k-$158k   or rs 13.7L-30L
	python
	node.js
	html
	c++
	javascript
	angular

CyberSecurity $84k-$164k   or rs 5L-40L
	CompTIA Network+ Certification
	CISSP Certification
	Cisco Certification
	CCNP Certification

ROBOTIC PROCESS AUTOMATION  $88k-$140k   or rs 7L-20L
	BluePrism
	UIPath------UIPATH ACADEMY 
	Automation  Anywhere
	Automation TEsting
	
Big Data $121k-$251k   or rs 12.3L-33L
	Analytics Professional Credential Certicication
	Business Issue ---- Framing
	Analytic Problem ----- Framing
	CCP Data Engineer
		Ingesting
		Transforming----Framing
		Storing & Analyzing-----data in Cloudera's CDH environment

Digital Maketing $60k-$160k   or rs 7L-16L
	SEO
	PPC
	Web Analytics
	Content Marketing
	Social Media
	Google Ads Certification
	Google Analytics Certification
	Hubspot Content Marketing

Data Science $115k-$246k   or rs 8.2L-20L
IBM's Data Science Professinal
HarvardX's Data Science Professinal


Cloud Computing $145k-$227k   or rs 16L-24L
AWS Certified Solution Architect-Associat
Microsoft certified azure administro

AI Machine Learning $140k-$386k   or rs 6L-20L
	Stanford Certified Machine Learning AI certificated

System Analyst $145k  or rs 16L
Test programs and Databases
Run Security Audits and Document on Systems
Analytical skills
Data Analysis and Programming Skills
Technical Analysis and Project Management

Blockchian Engineering $150k  or rs 15L
	Solid Programming Skill
	Through Understanding of the Technologoies Behind Ripple, R3, Ethereum and Bitcoin	
	Consensus Methodologies and the Security Protocol stacks
	Crypto Libraries and Functions


Product Manager $160k  or rs 25L
A Strong Understanding of Product LifeCycle Management(PLM)
Knowledge of Product management Tools like PivotalTracker, JIRA, and Asana
Strong Analytical and Time Management skills
Strategic and Tactical Goals and Objectives
Building a Product Portfolio
Managing and Implementing Marketing Activities
Contributing to the Product Strategy and it's vision


Full Stack Developer $164k  or rs 11L
Technologies such as MongoDB, Express.js, AngularJS, and Node.js
How to Design and Develop an API
Coding and Scripting
The Fundamentals of Web Development
Basics of Database Technologies

Devops Engineering $170k  or rs 11L
Planning->Support->customer Satisfaction->Productivity
Coding and Scripting
Understanding Development and Network Operations
Familiarity with DevOps Tools like Git and Jenkins
Knowledge of Linux or Unix System Administration
Designing and Maintaining a Develoyment Infrastucture
Integrating Cloud Services
Shell Scripting in PHP/Python and Ruby


Data Science $184k  or rs 15L
Understand Machine Learning Algorithms
Create Data Models
Code in Language like python, R, SAS and Other Analytical Tools
Identify Business Issuses and Provide Appropriate Solutions
Excellent communication

Cloud Architect $197k  or rs 26L
Understanding of Cloud Application Architecture
Knowledge of AWS, Azure or Google Cloud Platfrom
Good Knowledge of at Least Operstaing System
Computer Programming Languages
Security
Good Communication Skills
Developing Cloud Architecture and Cloud Strategy
Coordination the Implementation and Deployment of it
Ensuring Application Architecture and Deployments in the Cloud Environment are Done Properly

Iot Solution Architect $200k  or rs 10L
Strong Programming Skills
Understanding of Machine Learning
Knowledge of Hardware Design and Architecutre

Ai Architect $230k  or rs 63L
Solid Programming Skills and know Python, R and Torch
Understand how TensorFlow and Other Similar Technologies work
Understanding Technology Relatex to AI, Incuding ML, Neural Networks and Deep learning

Software Architect $264k  or rs 45L
Designing, Developing and Implementing Software Solutions
Providing Technical Leadership
Data Modeling
An Understanding of Software Architecture
Good Programming Skills 
Strong Analytical Skills


Data Analyst Skills
SQL and MS Excel
Data Cleaning and Wrangling
Maths and Statistics
Programming - Python or R
Data Visualization - Tableau or Power BI

https://www.simplilearn.com/learn-blockchain-basics-skillup?utm_campaign=Top5ReasonsToLearnBlokchainIn2022Shorts&utm_medium=ShortsDescription&utm_source=youtube
 
blockchain

Promising Carrer
Diversity of Job Roles
The Inflection Point of an Era
New Age Technology Integration
Digital Identity
High Demand for Blockchain Technology
Career in CyberSecurity
Cryptocurrencies and ICOs
Transparency and Improved Governance
Entertainment for all




















 https://www.dailyui.co/
www.internetlivestates.com
https://sqliteonline.com/
https://www.submarinecablemap.com/
www.cloudflare.com
www.ui-patterns.com
www.dribbble.com
www.sneakpeekit.com
www.balsamiq.cloud
https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap
https://bootsnipp.com/
https://stanford.edu/~cpiech/karel/ide.html
hyper.is
https://kanye.rest/
https://api.kanye.rest/
https://sv443.net/jokeapi/v2/
https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather?q=vadodara&appid=518d47bcf99733f9e57bda07d5ce8da2
https response code
https://httpstatusdogs.com/
https://cryptii.com/pipes/hex-to-text
npm install express
npm install -g nodemon
npm install body-parser

npm init
npm install body-parser express request

dradata
displine 

right path
consecentecy






Strengths 
I am a Self Learner, Self Confidant and parallel multitasker
Weakness i go to sleep
and Too sensitive in certain situations.

Just leave

Hello Google, I am Ratan Prajapati. Basically I am From Madhya Pradesh, India. But currently I am Pursuing My Btech Specialization in Cyber Security in Parul University Vadodara Gujarat
I have been very much excited to learn new things and when it comes to technology I get super excited I believe in the ideology that we grow together I always try to help the people around me with whatever resources for us .I have seen many students who are completely unaware of the new technology and it might have the will but they lack the proper guidance and don't have a property to guide them 

I am always passionate for helping others and making a used in society in the field of Technology being a boy from urban area of was not much familiar about the latest technologies but i am curious to learn and teach them all and to know about algorithms  so it will be easy for him to learn how to implement his ideas in building new technologies I will provide within two years and establish effective communication protocols and constantly motivate them for the little things 
it will give me apart to learn about The arising Technologies to ideas it will provide user sources and platform to help them all the main thing of being a serious delayed is to help my peers in the king is strong communication skills leadership qualities and teamwork which is as beneficial as technical skills thank you  I strongly believe that Google developer student club will make it possible as it can create a great impact on any community 
GDSC will help me sharing my knowledge and experience with us we will provide you specific skill and we will work on a specific fields by involving and creating ideas of a team member and this will also help us in on technological fields as in terms of work and to be active listener creative thinker and a good speaker and my main goal is to motivate my colleagues to think innovating and out of the box to do something new and creative with the help of GDS. I consider myself to be perfectly capable of starting a Google developers student club thank you.





win + ctrl + D  == Add a Virtual Desktop
win + ctrl + →  == Switch to the Virtual Desktop right
win + ctrl + ←  == Switch to the Virtual Desktop left
win + R   PSR   == Step Recorder




Introduction to Java
Most popular language created in 1991, publicly released by 1995
Developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems
Java was later acquired by Oracle
Simple and Easy to use
Write Once and run anywhere

Usage
Web Development, Desktop Development, Mobile Development, Game Development, Distributed Processing

Features of Java
Robust,secure,multi-threading,garbage Collector,Object Oriented, Platform Independent, Strong Type-checking, Compile&interpret




Maven -- why do we use Maven ?
Maven is chiefly used for Java-based projects.
The tool helps in building the code downloading
dependencies,The tool is used to build and
manage any Java-based project.It simplifies the
day to day work of Java Developers and helps
         them in their projects
Maven helps in getting the right JAR files for
each project as there may be different versions
         of separate packages.
 To download dependencies it is no more
 needed to visit the official website of each
software.It could now be easily done now by
      visiting"mvnrepository.com"

What is Maven ?
Maven isapopular open-source build tool
developed by the Apache Group to build,
publish,and deploy several projects at once
Maven is written in Java and is used to build
projects written inC#,Scala,Ruby,etc.
The tool is used to build and manage any
Java-based project.It simplifies the day to
day work of Java Developers and helps
them in their projects

Maven is based on Project Object Model
(POM)and focuses of simplification and
standardization of the building process
In the process,it takes care of the following:
Builds
Dependencies
Reports
Distribution
Releases
Mailing list 

Maven Repository
Maven repositories refer to the directories
of packaged JAR files that contain
metadata.The metadata refers to the POM
files relevant to each project.This metadata
is what allows Maven to download
dependencies
There are three types of repositories:
1. Local Repository ex - your PC
2. Remote Repository ex - any server
3. Central Repository ex - Internet

Local Repository -- Local Repository refers to the machine of
  the developer where all the project
material is saved.This repository contains
        all the dependency jars
Remote Repository -- The Remote Repository refers
to the repository present ona
 web server which is used
   when Maven needs to
download dependencies.This
repository works same as the
Central Repository.Whenever
  anything is needed from
Remote Repository it is first
 downloaded to the Local
Repository ad then it is used

Central Repository -- Central Repository refers to the Maven community
 that comes into action when there isaneed of
dependencies,and those dependencies cannot be
found in the Local Repository.Maven downloads
    the dependencies from here in the Local
          Repository whenever needed

Basic concept of Maven --- Project Object Model (POM)
Project Object Model(POM)refers to the
XML files that have all the information
regarding project and configuration
details
It has the description of the project,
details regarding the versioning and
configuration management of the project
The XML file is in the project home
directory.Maven searches for the POM in
the current directory when any task is to
be executed

Dependencies and Repositories -- Dependencies refer to the Java libraries
that are needed for the project.
Repositories refer to the directories of
packaged JAR files
If the dependencies are not present in
your local repository,then Maven
downloads them fromacentral
repository and stores them in the local
repository

Build Life Cycles, Phases and Goals -- Build Life Cycles consist ofasequence of
build phases,and each build phase
consists ofasequence of goals
Each goal is responsible foraparticular
task
Whenaphase is run all the goals related
to that phase and its plugins are also
compiled

Build Profile -- Build Profiles refer to the set of
configuration values,that are required to
buildaproject using different
configurations
Different build profiles are added to the
POM files when enabling different builds
Abuild profile helps in customizing build
for different environments

Build Plugin -- Maven Plugin refers to the group of
goals.These goals may or may not be of
the same phase
The plugins are used to perform specific
goal
Maven has its own standard plugins that
can be used.If wanted,we can also
implement our own in Java


Maven Architecture
	Read pom.xml 				pom files
Maven ----------------→ Dependencies,Plugins,Life_Cycles_Phases_and_Goals,Build_profile ------→ Maven_Repository


How does it work:
Read pom.xml file
Download dependencies defined in
pom.xml into local repository from central
repository
Create and generateareport according to
the requirements,and execute life-cycles,
phases,goals,plugins etc.



Maven Build Life cycle 
Maven life cycle isacollection of steps that
are to be followed to buildaproject
There are three built-in build life cycles:
 •Default:handles project deployment
 •Clean:handles project cleaning
 .Site:handles the creation of project site's
   documentation

The Build Life Cycle has different build
        phases or stages:

Compile
↓
Test-compile
↓
Test
↓
Package
↓
Integration-test
↓
Verify
↓
Install
↓
Deploy

Advantages of Maven
Apache Maven helps manage all the
processes,such as building,documentation,
releasing,and distribution in project
management
The tool simplifies the process of project
building.It increases the performance of the
project and the building process
The task of downloading Jar files and other
dependencies is done automatically
Maven provides easy access to all the
required information
Maven makes it easy for the developer to
buildaproject in different environments
without worrying about the dependencies,
processes,etc.
In Maven,it is easy to add new
dependencies,you must write the
dependency code in the pom file


mvn --version
mkdir temp
cd temp
mvn archetype:generate
choose of number 8: 5
groupId : com.simplilearn
artifactId : sampleproject
version 1.0-SNAPSHOT
package com.simplilearn

ls -alrt
cat pom.xml
vi pom.xml
mvn clean install

JEKINS
Software Development → Continuous Delivery → Continuous Integration





















Basic Web Architecture
Web Architecture is made up of three essential elements.   Website,Server, Ip Address
Website- Your browser starts by loading the main HTML file, and then the CSS and JavaScript
User interacts with the website and is not concerned with the backend of a web application
Server - Once you've developed your websites.you need to host it on a server to make it accessible on the internet.
Server, along with the database contains all the data of a website and facilitates user interaction.
Ip Address -- Websites is hosted on an IP Address
We put a domain name over that IP address, the same way we put names over people's phone numbers
HTML - html is the most widely used language for developing web pages.
It defines the structure of websites and formants web pages.
CSS -- css is a simple design language used for making web pages look good and presentable
it can be attached to any HTML elemetn and style it or even position it according to developer's choice.
JavaScript-- Javascript is a powerful, interpreted language targeted for web development 
It is used 














https://www.figma.com/
https://dribbble.com/
microsoft hollolance 
vishal shah metaverse head 
https://favicon.io/logo-generator/
https://css3buttongenerator.com/




I am student. I want to learn Android Develelopment in this courses. after learning these topic I will build some fronted view of website and explore developing websites. i want to learn hands-on skills to work with XML , Kotlin and Cloud. after this courser i want to learn cloud developer part or framwork , elctron js mongo.db, react.js. I will become a Android  developer. so i build another programm. in this course i learn Understand the Cloud Development Ecosystem and Terminology like front-end developer, back-end, server-side and also learn Become familiar with the developer tools and IDEs used by web programmers and Work with programming languages used by front-end developers for creating user interfaces. this course will leadme through the languages and tools i will need to develop your own Cloud Apps. in this tutorial SKILLS I will gain cloud,xml,Git (Software),java,Cloud Applications. in this course i am learning about the  android basics
Thank you





I am Ratan Prajapati from Madhya Pradesh India. currently I am Studying in Btech CSE 2nd year in Parul University vadodara Gujrat India. My Father's name is Chhaviram Prajapati. He is a Labour Person. He is only sourse of income in my family. and income very less. We are six members in my family. it is very difficult to my studying for this courses payment.  but i want to learn frontend development I want to learn Html,Css and JavaScript for frontend developer. As a student it's my investing period on me, no source of income though. Now I'm fully depending on my family that doesn't make me feel good. I believe there will be a time I'll earn much and will be capable enough to repay my loan. So, applying for financial help for study purpose can bring self financial responsibility and solvency. That's why I'm doing so. and i have some financial issues so i can not effort for this courses money therefor i am applying for this course on financial aid. so please procees the request. so i can learning web development.

I am student. I want to learn HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT in this courses. after learning these topic I will build some fronted view of website and explore developing websites. i want to learn hands-on skills to work with HTML, CSS and JavaScript. after this courser i want to learn backend developer part or framwork like node.js, elctron js mongo.db, react.js. I will become a full stack developer. so i build another programm. in this course i learn Understand the Cloud Development Ecosystem and Terminology like front-end developer, back-end, server-side and also learn Become familiar with the developer tools and IDEs used by web programmers and Work with programming languages used by front-end developers for creating user interfaces. this course will leadme through the languages and tools i will need to develop your own Cloud Apps. in this tutorial SKILLS I will gain Cascading Style Sheets (CCS),Html,Git (Software),JavaScript,Cloud Applications. 
Thank you

I am Ratan Prajapati from Madhya Pradesh India. My Father is a Labour. He is only sourse of income in my family. and income very less but i want to learn frontend development.so please procees the request. 
so i can learning web development.
As a student it's my investing period on me, no source of income though. Now I'm fully depending on my family that doesn't make me feel good. I believe there will be a time I'll earn much and will be capable enough to repay my loan. So, applying for financial help for study purpose can bring self financial responsibility and solvency. That's why I'm doing so.








Here are some project ideas ,like this comment for good reachability to view more peoples
1.Android Based Security system using Biometric and Face Detection.
2. Mobile Based Online Examination.
3. Vehicle Defect Tracking System.
4. Travel Guide App (Show Smallest Routes and Historical Places)
5. Diseases Identification Using Machine Learning.
6. People Count at temples/gurudhwara/masjid etc Using Machine Learning.
7. Density Based Traffic Signal System.
8. Connecting Clinics and Doctors Online. (for pharmaceutical).
9. Family Tracking or Safety System.
10.Food Wastage Reduction App.
11. Distance Measurement APP
12. Health Fitness APP
13. Expensive Saving APP
14. Data Sharing App like Zapya 
15. Augment Reality base app for Logistics (DHL  |Daraz)
16.Object Deduction 
17.Human Pose Deduction 
18.Ducment Clustering Analysis 
19.Sentiment | Activity | Positive / Negitive Mining 
20.ChatBots
21.Suspicious Activity Deduction 
22.Recommendation System 
23.Logger Catagrization 
24.Siri-base Solution 
25.Road- Vehicle and Load Blancer
26.Automitic Load divider System 
27.Heart /Dieases Prediction System 
28.Flicker 
29.Smart Home Control Using IOT and IOS
30.Location base Attencdence System
31.Data Skrapping For E-Commerce Business 
32.Online Tickting System For Company

aap socho ki ye nyay hai ki nahi ki jo jis raste par jana hi nahi chahata nature kyo jabarjasti bheje ji jisne na sona socha na hira socha na emrald socha.  jisne socha hi nahi usko nahi milta bhai purani file delete kar de software khol de or isme ghusa kush jisse amiri aaye ghuse bina amiri ayegi nahi sochane se amiri ayegi

three quetions ask yours
who i am right now,
What i want to became in life,
How will i reach there,
 Aware :- How many people aware of your brand?
Appeal :- How manyu people like your brand?
Ask :- Hom many people inquire about your brand?
Act :- How many people evntually bought your product?
Advocate  :- how many people became your brand ambassador?
it is not about how many people know you, it is about how many people trust you

weak brand compaign:- Improve your Marketing communication
Bottleneck in Decision Making:- Do content Marketing
Weak Sales Team/ Distrubution Network/CRM:- Team Trainging Build Distribution Networks
Bad Product Quality No Incentive for Loyalty and Reference:- Improve your Product in such a way that your Customer becomes your Promoter Referral scheme to Build Loyality
agar aap grahak ki sunenge to grahak apko hi chungenge
what do you stand for? what should you be known for
grahak ka rishta tab tak khas hota hai jab tak usko dukandar par biswas hota hai
when you serve the customer better, they always return on your invesrtment
teh raho pahle raho lekin kabhi akele mat raho
apne aapko upar dekhne ki bajay apko dusro ko upar uthne me madad karni chahiye

non-seasonal businees
sadharan log ek saath mil ke ashadharan chize hasil kar skate hai
low investemet high profit
agar aap franchiess ki sunenge to franchiese apko hi chungege
problem
product
position
proces
prfit


